# margheRita: an R package for analyzing the entire workflow of mass spectrometry-based metabolic profiles.

Maria Ulaszewska1, Edoardo Bellini2, Denise Drago1, Valeria Mannella1, Marco Morelli2, Annapaola Andolfo1, Ettore Mosca3

1) ProMeFa, Proteomics and Metabolomics Facility, Center for Omics Sciences (COSR), IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan 20132, Italy
2) Center for Omics Sciences (COSR), IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan 20132, Italy
3) National Research Council, Institute of Biomedical Technologies, Segrate (Milan), Italy


MargheRita is intended for any kind of mass spectrometer raw data, including both MS and MS/MS data. It takes as input .txt/.csv files that contain the metabolic profiles generated by MS-DIAL and metadata for sample processing. The first pre-processing step performs the integration of the metabolic profiles in a unique data structure and generates plots for quality control about outliers, drifts or batch effects. Then, metabolites and samples can be filtered based on the quantification of mass defect values, missing values and coefficient of variation of m/z features along QC and study samples. Moreover, margheRita provides various methods for missing value imputation and data normalization, including those particular recommended for metabolomic profiles, like the Probabilistic Quotient Normalization (PQN) or the normalization to a standard factor (e.g. protein concentration, urine osmolality). Subsequent analyses include: parametric and non-parametric statistical tests for the identification of significant metabolite signatures; sample clustering; metabolite correlation analysis and pathway analysis (using databases like KEGG and BioCyc). Additional advantage derives from the MS/MS data management and annotations with the possibility of data browsing and searching. 
